Stanage: add docs for dev tooling (#1659)
rcgsheffield/sheffield_hpc: stanagepilot/software/parallel/openmpi.rst

        // Get the name of the processor
        char processor_name[MPI_MAX_PROCESSOR_NAME];
        int name_len;
        MPI_Get_processor_name(processor_name, &name_len);

        // Print off a hello world message
        printf("Hello world from processor %s, rank %d out of %d processors\n",
               processor_name, world_rank, world_size);

        // Finalize the MPI environment.
        MPI_Finalize();
    }

MPI_COMM_WORLD (which is constructed for us by MPI) encloses all of the processes in the job, so this call should return the amount of processes that were requested for the job.

Compile your source code by using on of the following commands: ::

    mpicc hello.c -o hello

Interactive job submission
##########################

You can run your job interactively: ::

    mpirun hello

Your output would be something like: ::

    Hello world from processor stanage-node001.shef.ac.uk, rank 0 out of 1 processors

This is an expected behaviour since we did not specify the number of CPU cores when requesting our interactive session.
You can request an interactive node with multiple cores (4 in this example) by using the command: ::

>     srun --ntasks=4 --pty bash -i

Reviewer: May need `--mpi=pmix_v4` here - @jkwmoore ?

Reviewer 2: Possibly, but at this stage (tested) I am fairly confident that we can have SLURM set the default to be pmix_v4 via the OpenMPI module files? 

If implemented it like that via the EB hooks and a module rebuild for OpenMPI modules, then that would need adding to the docs page too.

It also raises the same question for Intel MPI stuff.

Please note that requesting multiple cores in an interactive node depends on the availability. During peak times, it is unlikely that you can successfully request a large number of cpu cores interactively.  Therefore, it may be a better approach to submit your job non-interactively. 

   

Non-interactive job submission
##############################

Write a shell script (minimal example). We name the script as ``test.sh``: ::

    #!/bin/bash
    #SBATCH --nodes=1
    #SBATCH --ntasks-per-node=8

    module load OpenMPI/4.1.4-GCC-12.2.0

>     mpirun hello

Reviewer: Think we should propose using `srun --mpi=pmix_v4 --export=ALL` instead of `mpirun` but should also mention that using `mpirun` instead is still an option.

Author: @willfurnass , @jkwmoore commented we need to rebuild the OpenMPI module files to opinionate on {'SLURM_MPI_TYPE': "pmix_v4"}

Reviewer 2: I am doing that as I write this, that in mind. With that set, we need to communicate at least in the administrator installation notes that this is the case. 

We should probably also highlight that automatic amendments to the installations are implemented via the hooks (including conditional logic for some parts based on versions.)

.. _openmpi_stanage:

OpenMPI
=======

.. sidebar:: OpenMPI

   :Latest Version: 4.1.4
   :Dependancies: gcc
   :URL: https://www.open-mpi.org/

The OpenMPI Project is an open source Message Passing Interface implementation that is developed and maintained by a consortium of academic, research, and industry partners. OpenMPI is therefore able to combine the expertise, technologies, and resources from all across the High Performance Computing community in order to build the best MPI library available. OpenMPI offers advantages for system and software vendors, application developers and computer science researchers.

Versions
--------

You can load a specific version using one of the following: ::

    module load OpenMPI/3.1.4-GCC-8.3.0   # part of the foss-2019b toolchain
    module load OpenMPI/4.0.3-GCC-9.3.0   # part of the foss-2020a toolchain
    module load OpenMPI/4.0.5-GCC-9.3.0   # part of the foss-2020a toolchain
    module load OpenMPI/4.0.5-GCC-10.2.0  # part of the foss-2020b toolchain

>     module load OpenMPI/4.1.1-GCC-10.3.0  # part of the foss-2021a toolchain

Reviewer: Add warnings re the following performing poorly
*  OpenMPI/4.1.1-GCC-10.3.0
*  OpenMPI/4.1.1-GCC-11.2.0

Add to pages of things that depend on these too?

Author: `OpenMPI/4.1.1-GCC-10.3.0
 foss/2021a
 gompi/2021a
 ScaLAPACK/2.1.0-gompi-2021a-fb
 foss/2021a
 FFTW/3.3.9-gompi-2021a
 foss/2021a

OpenMPI/4.1.1-GCC-11.2.0
 foss/2021b
 SciPy-bundle/2021.10-foss-2021b
 GDAL/3.3.2-foss-2021b
 networkx/2.6.3-foss-2021b
 HPL/2.3-foss-2021b
 GDAL/3.3.2-foss-2021b
 networkx/2.6.3-foss-2021b
 gompi/2021b
 ScaLAPACK/2.1.0-gompi-2021b-fb
 foss/2021b
 SciPy-bundle/2021.10-foss-2021b
 GDAL/3.3.2-foss-2021b
 networkx/2.6.3-foss-2021b
 HPL/2.3-foss-2021b
 GDAL/3.3.2-foss-2021b
 networkx/2.6.3-foss-2021b
 HDF5/1.12.1-gompi-2021b
 GDAL/3.3.2-foss-2021b
 netCDF/4.8.1-gompi-2021b
 GDAL/3.3.2-foss-2021b
 FFTW/3.3.10-gompi-2021b
 foss/2021b
 SciPy-bundle/2021.10-foss-2021b
 GDAL/3.3.2-foss-2021b
 networkx/2.6.3-foss-2021b
 HPL/2.3-foss-2021b
 GDAL/3.3.2-foss-2021b
 networkx/2.6.3-foss-2021b
 netCDF/4.8.1-gompi-2021b
 GDAL/3.3.2-foss-2021b

`

Author: Warning added to OpenMPI. Add warnings to others in a seperate PR? @willfurnass

        // Get the rank of the process
        int world_rank;
        MPI_Comm_rank(MPI_COMM_WORLD, &world_rank);

        // Get the name of the processor
        char processor_name[MPI_MAX_PROCESSOR_NAME];
        int name_len;
        MPI_Get_processor_name(processor_name, &name_len);

        // Print off a hello world message
        printf("Hello world from processor %s, rank %d out of %d processors\n",
               processor_name, world_rank, world_size);

        // Finalize the MPI environment.
        MPI_Finalize();
    }

MPI_COMM_WORLD (which is constructed for us by MPI) encloses all of the processes in the job, so this call should return the amount of processes that were requested for the job.

Compile your source code by using on of the following commands: ::

    mpicc hello.c -o hello

.. note:: 

        In this example we used the MPI C compiler. We could also choose to compile with either of the MPI C++ compilers ``mpicxx`` or ``mpiCC``

Interactive job submission
##########################

You can run your job interactively (from a login node): ::

    srun hello

Your output would be something like: ::

>     Hello world from processor stanage-node001.shef.ac.uk, rank 0 out of 1 processors

Reviewer: Hostname will be `node001.pri.stanage.alces.network`, not `stanage-node001.shef.ac.uk`

Author: Thank you @willfurnass

> This is an expected behaviour since we did not specify the number of CPU cores when requesting our interactive job.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is an expected behaviour since by default interactive jobs get allocated one single-CPU-core task running on one node.
```

You can request an interactive job with multiple cores (4 in this example) by using this command (from a login node): ::

    srun --ntasks=4 hello

Your output would be something like: ::

>     Hello world from processor stanage-node003.shef.ac.uk, rank 3 out of 4 processors

Reviewer: Hostname will be `node003.pri.stanage.alces.network`, not `stanage-node003.shef.ac.uk`

    Hello world from processor stanage-node003.shef.ac.uk, rank 1 out of 4 processors
    Hello world from processor stanage-node003.shef.ac.uk, rank 0 out of 4 processors
    Hello world from processor stanage-node001.shef.ac.uk, rank 2 out of 4 processors

Please note that requesting multiple cores in an interactive node depends on the availability. During peak times, it is unlikely that you can successfully request a large number of cpu cores interactively.  Therefore, it may be a better approach to submit your job non-interactively. 

   

Non-interactive job submission
##############################

Write a shell script (minimal example). We name the script as ``test.sh``: ::

    #!/bin/bash
    #SBATCH --nodes=1
    #SBATCH --ntasks-per-node=8

    module load OpenMPI/4.1.4-GCC-12.2.0

    srun --export=ALL hello

> Maximum 64 cores can be requested.

Reviewer: I don't think this makes sense here.  Users can request more cores if they request multiple nodes.  Simplest option would be to omit this line.

Submit your script by using the command: ::

    sbatch test.sh

Your output would be something like: ::

>     Hello world from processor stanage-node003.shef.ac.uk, rank 6 out of 8 processors

Reviewer: Hostname will be `node003.pri.stanage.alces.network`, not `stanage-node003.shef.ac.uk`
